ios docs (#1362)
Appboy/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/ios_14.md

---
nav_title: iOS 14 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 10
platform: iOS
---

# iOS 14 SDK Upgrade Guide

This guide describes relevant changes introduced in iOS 14 and the required upgrade steps for your Braze iOS SDK integration.

For a complete list of the new features and changes announced this year at WWDC, see Apple's [iOS 14 Preview](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-14-preview/).

## Braze SDK Compatibility

An SDK upgrade will be required for apps targeting iOS 14 in order to continue using Braze messaging features. 

> We have released a beta version of our iOS 14 compatible SDK [available on our Github](**LINK**), and will continue to release updates and fixes to this beta version as Apple continues to release newer versions of iOS 14 beta.

Reviewer: this beta version -> future beta versions

> We have released a beta version of our iOS 14 compatible SDK [available on our Github](**LINK**), and will continue to release updates and fixes to this beta version as Apple continues to release newer versions of iOS 14 beta.

Author: ```suggestion
We have released a beta version of our iOS 14 compatible SDK [available on our Github](**LINK**), and will continue to release updates and fixes to future beta releases as Apple continues to release newer versions of iOS 14 beta.
```

> We expect to release our official support for iOS 14 soon after Apple releases their final version of iOS 14 (known as the "golden master").

Reviewer 2: nit: I think it's usually capitalized "Golden Master"

Author: ```suggestion
We expect to release our official support for iOS 14 soon after Apple releases their final version of iOS 14 (known as the "Golden Master").
```

If you experience any issues or questions related to our iOS 14 compatibility or beta release, please open a new [Github Issue][2].

### Upgrade Summary

For apps targeting iOS 14, the following features have a change in behavior, or will require upgrading to the latest Braze iOS SDK.

> - Geofences are not supported for users who choose the new  _approximate location_ permission

Author: ```suggestion
- Geofences are not supported for users who choose the new  _approximate location_ permission.
```

- Updating a user's Last Known Location using the new _approximate location_ permission requires upgrading your Braze SDK.

> - Expect a sudden decrease in IDFA availability which now requires a permission prompt

Author: ```suggestion
- Expect a sudden decrease in IDFA availability which now requires a permission prompt
- iOS 14 has removed provisional push authorization in favor of opting users into an initial "quiet" push setting.
```

> - Upgrade to the Web SDK v2.5.2+ to account for Safari’s updated storage expiration restrictions

Reviewer: We should announce this elsewhere - I think this page should stay iOS 14 focused - it's possible a separate page for Safari that links to this one (and vice versa) would make sense

> - Upgrade to the Web SDK v2.5.2+ to account for Safari’s updated storage expiration restrictions

Author: ```suggestion
```

## iOS 14 Behavior Changes

### Approximate Location Permission

![Precise Location]({% image_buster /assets/img/ios/ios14-approximate-location.png %}){: style="float:right;max-width:45%;margin-left:15px;"}

#### Overview

> When an app requests location permission, users will now have a choice to provide their _precise location_ (previous behavior), or the new _approximate location_ which returns a larger radius in which the user is located.

Reviewer 2: Kind of a long (run-on?) sentence - can we split it up a bit?

Author: ```suggestion
When requesting location permission, users will now have a choice to provide their _precise location_ (previous behavior), or the new _approximate location_. Approximate location will return a larger radius in which the user is located, instead of their exact coordinates.
```

#### Geofences

Geofences, which previously relied on precise location permission, are no longer recorded by apps that have obtained the new _approximate location_ permission. While no updates are required to your Braze SDK integration, you may need to adjust your [location-based marketing strategy](https://www.braze.com/blog/geofencing-geo-targeting-beaconing-when-to-use/) for campaigns that rely on geofences.

#### Location Targeting

> To continue to collect users' _last known location_ when _approximate location_ is granted, your app will need to upgrade to the latest Braze iOS SDK. Keep in mind that the location will be less precise, and based on our testing has been upwards of 12,000 meters (7+ miles).

Author: ```suggestion
To continue to collect users' _last known location_ when _approximate location_ is granted, your app will need to upgrade to the latest Braze iOS SDK. Keep in mind that the location will be less precise, and based on our testing has been upwards of 12,000 meters (7+ miles). 

Apps which target iOS 14 that do not upgrade to the latest Braze SDK will no longer be able to use location tracking when _approximate location_ is granted.
```

> Users who have already granted location access will continue to provide _precise location_ after upgrading.

Reviewer: We should spell out what happens if you don't upgrade

For more information on Approximate Location, see Apple's [What's New In Location](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2020/10660/) WWDC Video.

### IDFA and App Tracking Transparency

#### Overview

> IDFA (Identity for Advertisers) is an identifier provided by Apple used by advertising and attribution partners for cross-device tracking, tied to an individual's Apple ID.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this?
```suggestion
IDFA (Identity for Advertisers) is an identifier provided by Apple used by advertising and attribution partners for cross-device tracking and is tied to an individual's Apple ID.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe a link associated with IDFA if they want more info?

> Beginning in iOS 14, a new permission prompt, known as the AppTrackingTransparency framework, will require explicit user consent to access the IDFA. This permission to “track you across apps and websites owned by other companies” will be requested similarly to how you’d prompt users to request their location.

Reviewer 2: ```a new permission prompt, known as the AppTrackingTransparency framework,```

I believe the prompt _is launched by_ the framework

Author: ```suggestion
Beginning in iOS 14, a new permission prompt (launched by the new `AppTrackingTransparency` framework) will require explicit user consent to access the IDFA. This permission to "track you across apps and websites owned by other companies" will be requested similarly to how you’d prompt users to request their location.
```

If a user does not accept the prompt then a blank IDFA value (`00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`) will be returned, and your app will not be allowed to prompt the user again.

#### Changes to Braze IDFA collection

![App Clip]({% image_buster /assets/img/ios/ios14-idfa.png %}){: style="float:right;max-width:45%;margin-left:15px;"}

> 1. Braze will continue to allow apps to provide a user's IDFA value

Author: ```suggestion
1. Braze will continue to allow apps to provide a user's IDFA value _to_ the Braze SDK
```

> 2. SDK macros which previously instructed the Braze SDK to retrieve the IDFA have been removed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Any lines of code in the Braze SDK used to retrieve the IDFA have been removed

```

Author: ```suggestion
2. All code in Braze SDK which was used to retrieve the IDFA have been removed
```

> 2. All code in Braze SDK which was used to retrieve the IDFA have been removed

Reviewer: The `ABK_ENABLE_IDFA_COLLECTION` macro, which would conditionally compile in optional automatic IDFA collection, will be removed in our iOS 14 release.

> 2. All code in Braze SDK which was used to retrieve the IDFA have been removed

Author: ```suggestion
2. The `ABK_ENABLE_IDFA_COLLECTION` macro, which would conditionally compile in optional automatic IDFA collection, will be removed in our iOS 14 release.
```

> 3. If your app has used IDFA or IDFV as your Braze External ID, we strongly recommend migrating away from these identifiers in favor of a UUID. For more information on migrating External IDs, see our new External ID Migration API Endpoint.

Reviewer 2: `External ID Migration API Endpoint` < maybe a link here?

Author: ```suggestion
3. If your app has used IDFA or IDFV as your Braze External ID, we strongly recommend migrating away from these identifiers in favor of a UUID. For more information on migrating External IDs, see our new [External ID Migration API Endpoint](https://www.braze.com/docs/api/endpoints/user_data/external_id_migration/).
```

Read more from Apple about their [Privacy Updates](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/user-privacy-and-data-use/) and the new [App Tracking Transparency framework](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/apptrackingtransparency).

> ### Push Authorization

Reviewer: A line item for this should go into the `Upgrade Summary`

iOS 14 has removed Provisional Push Authorization introduced in 2018 (iOS 12). As a result, newly installed apps will be authorized to receive push notifications _quietly_, within the user's notification tray.

## iOS 14 New Features

### App Privacy and Data Collection Overview

The App Store's new App Privacy feature will disclose to users what personal information an app collects and how it may track users across other apps and websites. Apple has [stated](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-14-preview/), "Privacy information on the App Store will be coming in an iOS 14 update later this year".

> Braze will continue to monitor this new feature announcement to help make sure that your use of Braze is appropriately disclosed in the App Privacy summary.

Reviewer: "help you understand how your usage of Braze may be disclosed in the App Privacy summary."

> Braze will continue to monitor this new feature announcement to help make sure that your use of Braze is appropriately disclosed in the App Privacy summary.

Author: ```suggestion
Braze will continue to monitor this new feature announcement to help you understand how your usage of Braze may be disclosed in the App Privacy summary.
```

---
nav_title: iOS 14 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 10

> platform: iOS

Author: ```suggestion
platform: iOS
hidden: true
```

---
nav_title: iOS 14 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 10
platform: iOS
hidden: true
---

# iOS 14 SDK Upgrade Guide

This guide describes relevant changes introduced in iOS 14 and the required upgrade steps for your Braze iOS SDK integration.

For a complete list of the new features and changes announced this year at WWDC, see Apple's [iOS 14 Preview](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-14-preview/).

## Braze SDK Compatibility

An SDK upgrade will be required for apps targeting iOS 14 in order to continue using Braze messaging features. 

> We have released a beta version of our iOS 14 compatible SDK [available on our Github](**LINK**), and will continue to release updates and fixes to future beta releases as Apple continues to release newer versions of iOS 14 beta.

Author: ```suggestion
We have released a beta version of our iOS 14 compatible SDK [available on our Github][1], and will continue to release updates and fixes to future beta releases as Apple continues to release newer versions of iOS 14 beta.
```

We will be releasing support and documentation in the near future.

### Widgets

#### Overview

For customers interested in using Braze within Widgets, please contact your Braze Success Team or Support Team.

We will be releasing support and documentation in the near future.

### Safari Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP)

![Safari ITP Privacy Report]({% image_buster /assets/img/ios/ios14-safari-itp-privacy-report.jpg %}){: style="float:right;max-width:45%;margin-left:15px;"}

This year, Apple announced a new Safari feature called the _Privacy Report_, which will show users which trackers or 3rd party domains have been blocked to prevent cross-site tracking or identification.

#### Braze Web SDK

The Braze Web SDK does not do cross-site tracking, does not set any 3rd party cookies, and does not use any fingerprinting technologies. Based on our current testing, Braze does not appear in Safari's _Privacy Report_.

Version 2.5.2 of the Braze Web SDK addresses the shorter browser-storage duration based on previous changes to Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP 2.1) which accounts for Safari’s updated storage expiration restrictions.

> [1]: https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md

Author: ```suggestion
[1]: https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/blob/ios14-beta/CHANGELOG.md
```
